And lastly for our error handling section
here I wanna talk about the two panic and
defer functions you saw a little
bit in that last example.
When we were talking about opening and
closing a file, you saw that if
the file is successfully opened,
we can call defer, and then f.Close.
So a couple of reasons why this
is a really cool function.
A lot of times like once we open a file,
there's gonna be a lot of
stuff we want to do with it.
Let's say you're parsing it, logging it,
whatever you're trying to do with the file
you just opened and a lot of that stuff
happens before you wannaa close it.
But sometimes,
especially with readability, it's nice to
see some of these things closer together.
So you see that on the first line, you're
opening a file, and then at some point,
you're gonna defer this till later.
You wanna close that file in the middle.
You can do whatever you want.
So the defer line is gonna happen last.
And then panic at the bottom there is
just a review of, if you wanted to throw
a panic error that's gonna completely
halt execution of your program,
you can use the method panic and
then call whatever you want within that.
In this case we're just telling it to go
find that error that was just thrown.
So let's hop back into errors ago and
talk about defer.
Okay, so let's talk about what's
happening in this code snippet,
where we have a set of different
functions in our do things method.
But the first thing that
happens is in function main,
where we call our do things function.
And if you hop up to do things,
you'll see that the first two lines
have the the defer method here.
And then stuff happens to the right hand
side where we're just printing some lines.
So I run this right now.
We are going to be up in errors.go.
You'll notice that the order of operations
are kind of the opposite of what you
would see if you were looking at just
like line by line execution of this code.
So the first thing that
happens is things and
stuff should happen first
switch is executed on line 54.
The second is do this second to
last which happens on line 53, and
then first line but do this last,
which happens at line 52.
And so what's cool about defer,
is that it's gonna keep going
through the defers in a last in
first out type of structure.
So the first thing it's gonna
do it's gonna be like cool,
I see a bunch of defers,
let's skip through those, find the first
line of execution that I can do first,
which is this last line on 54.
And then it's gonna kinda
work its way up and
execute each of the defers kind of as
it reverses its way through the code.
So, so far we've kinda talked
about panic and defer and
the third member of the party here
is another method called recover.
And so panic is gonna be called if
the application kinda stops execution and
you need to actually like fataly do
something different within your code,
defer is going to tell your code to kind
of hang out and do something differently.
And if you pair all these
together with the recover verb,
you're gonna tell go what to do,
if your application panics.
So recovering differ kind of like buddies,
where if recover is paired with defer,
it's gonna be like okay,
once you panic, go check for
any statements closing a file,
even if the file itself doesn't exist or
you do something with it and it blows up.
You still wanna close that file before
the end of the function, so panic and
differ work really well together.
But if there's more you wanna do
besides just close that file like hey,
update a log or do something else.
You can call recover, to be,
okay, something panicked,
divert some stuff and
also do this as well.
And so we're gonna look at
kind of what that looks like.
Back in Pericycle.
Cool.
So you'll notice that in main,
we still have our do things function.
But this time we've modified the do things
to have a little bit more going on.
So first of all,
we're calling a for loop or
iterating over a set of indexes and
then we're printing the index.
And if I was to, we're just gonna panic.
And so
we're gonna call this panic function.
We're gonna throw the string a panic.
And see what happens if we run,
do things as is.
You'll see we get zero,
one and two and then we panic.
So even though our for
loop should iterate over to five.
Once I set to two, we panic.
But let's say once we panic, we want to
alert the user that something happened be
more specific,
add a little bit more detail.
Let's add the defer and recover,
to add a little bit more
functionality to our code here.
Cool.
So within our do things function,
we're going to first set up a defer.
So the last thing that should fire here,
is a function that we're gonna make
an a second call to recover from panic.
So even if the function panics, go find a
defer if one exists and execute that code
So let's write a function
called recover from panic.
Okay, so we're gonna modify our do things
function just a little bit we have our for
loop that iterates over our index up until
five and then if index hits two, we panic.
And so when we call panic, we know that
the first thing is gonna do is look for
any defer functions.
And if there is a defer function,
that kind of fire,
whatever those instructions are.
So I'm gonna create a function called
recoverFromPanic which is instructions for
what this program should
do if the program panics.
And then recoverFromPanic here,
we're gonna start implementing
the recover function.
So to use the recover function, we're
gonna first instantiate a variable called
R and
set that to whatever recover returns and
recover is only going to return a value
if there has actually been a panic.
So similar to how we had our error
handling, both define the variable and
a check for a value.
We can say, Hey,
if you called recover, and
the recover value is not nil.
So recover actually got a value back,
do something with that information.
So here I'm just going to print line and
say something like,
hey, we panicked, but everyone's fine.
And then after that,
let's also print line.
And I wanna kind of demonstrate like what
instructions have to be just to see what
did our recover function get
if it's not nill what is it.
So in here, let's just print R.
Cool.
So now that we have a recover
from panic function written,
Cool.
We can do one last thing.
So right now when we panic,
we're simply passing it a string.
If I were to run the code as is,
We are in section eight for errors.
We're gonna see we panicked but
everyone's fine.
And then we see that the instructions
that were sent to a recover function is
the string that we
actually handed our panic.
And this is kind of a cool way to pass
some information around your program.
Even if something goes wrong,
what do you wanna do about it?
So instead of just halting
execution completely,
let's add a few more layers of instruction
to handle it a little more gracefully.